# Syn_Tool
**Syn_Tool** is a deep learning framework designed for analyzing *Synechococcus* ITS sequences. It integrates identification, classification, and novel clade delineation into a single streamlined workflow. With minimal setup, you can process sequence data and abundance information to gain insights into *Synechococcus* communities.

---

## Installation

### Requirements

- **Python Version**: Python 3.8 or later  
- **Dependencies**: Listed in `requirements.txt`

### Steps

1. Clone the repository:
   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/Aldred-Wang/Syn_Tool.git
   cd Syn_Tool
   ```

2. Install dependencies:
   ```bash
   pip install -r requirements.txt
   ```

---

## Usage

Before running the tool, ensure that the following files are placed inside the `model` folder:
- `Syn_Tool_run.py`
- `input_sequences.fasta`
- `input_abundance.txt`

Run the following command to start the tool:
```bash
python Syn_Tool_run.py -fa input_sequences.fasta -a input_abundance.txt
```

**Parameters**
- `-fa` or `--fasta`: Path to the input FASTA file.
- `-a` or `--abundance`: Path to the abundance file.

---

## Example

Here’s an example of how to use Syn_Tool:
```bash
python Syn_Tool_run.py -fa example_sequences.fasta -a example_abundance.txt
```

---

## Output

After execution, the following files will be generated:
- `Syn.fasta`: Output file from the identification module containing *Synechococcus* ITS sequences in FASTA format.
- `Syn_df.csv`: Output file from the identification module containing *Synechococcus* ITS sequences in CSV format.
- `combined_df.csv`: Output file from the classification module containing feature vectors of *Synechococcus* ITS sequences extracted by the CNN model.
- `result.csv`: Output file from the novel clade delineation module providing information about *Synechococcus* novel clades.
- `Syn_Tool_final_result.txt`: Final classification file generated by Syn_Tool.

---

## Citation

If you use **Syn_Tool** in your research, please cite:

---

## Contact

For questions or issues, please contact:

**Yanhui Wang**

Email: wangyanhui991124@163.com

Affiliation: State Key Laboratory of Marine Environmental Science and College of Ocean and Earth Sciences, Xiamen University

---
